Add identity key support for PSA attestation (#8188)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/others/identity_key.rst

.. _lib_identity_key:

Identity key
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The identity key library manages an asymmetric key used for identity services on devices with the Arm CryptoCell and KMU peripherals.

Functionality
*************

This library manages the identity keys, which are asymmetric keys intended to provide identity to specific devices.

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Author: We can consider stronger wording

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Author: Like the change, willf ix

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Author: Fixed

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Author: Fixed

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Reviewer: We are still using the word expected.

> The identity key is expected to be unique and that is device-generated or otherwise provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Reviewer: Not fixed

> The identity key is stored in an encrypted form inside the Key Management Unit (KMU) storage, in two reserved slots.

Author: Can't use the reworded statement as we are already "using 2 reserved KMU slots" for the encryption (MKEK key)
Will try a different version of rewording that still talks about "placement in KMU slots"

> The identity key is stored in an encrypted form inside the Key Management Unit (KMU) storage, in two reserved slots.

Author: Changed "using" to "in" to limit misunderstandings about the usage of MKEK for the encryption
Fixed!

> The HUK used to encrypt the identity key is the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK).

Author: Will add more info about the Master Key Encryption Key, but it is a separate scope for where it is defined, and it is used for more things than just this

> The HUK used to encrypt the identity key is the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK).

Reviewer: No, I mean who will use this library.

> The HUK used to encrypt the identity key is the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK).

Reviewer: As in, which kind of images;

non-secure zephyr images, TF-M secure partitions, fully secure-only builds without any non-secure images, bootloaders, etc.

.. caution::

>    The identity key must not be shared. Leaking this leaks the identity of the dvice.

Reviewer 2: *device

Reviewer 3: should be fixed

.. _lib_identity_key:

Identity key
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The identity key library manages an asymmetric key used for identity services on devices with the Arm CryptoCell and KMU peripherals.

Functionality
*************

This library manages the identity keys, which are asymmetric keys intended to provide identity to specific devices.

> The identity key is designed to be unique and is either device-generated or provisioned in a secure manner during production.

Reviewer: I see we have two ways to create the identity key, but I only understand the use-case for one of them.

According to the "PSA Security Model":

"At manufacture, the device is provisioned with immutable PSA parameters, see Table 2, that are
sufficient to uniquely and securely identify the device instance." --  https://developer.arm.com/-/media/Files/pdf/PlatformSecurityArchitecture/Architect/DEN0079_PSA_SM_ALPHA-03_RC01.pdf

So the use-case for provisioning a unique key is clear.

But when would one want to generate a unique key on the device? Is this for non-PSA use-cases?

Reviewer: This either-or sentence is implying that you either device-generate a key, or provision in a secure manner.

But you can provision in a secure manner by device-generating a key.

This sentence needs to be re-written to remove the implication that it's either or.

Author: Rewrote the line, fixed

The identity key is encrypted and stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU), in two reserved KMU slots.
The HUK used to encrypt the identity key is the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK), which is a key reserved for encrypting key-wallet keys.

> The identity key is only available for use from a secure image, like the TF-M image, a bootloader, or a production image.

Author: Fixed

.. _lib_identity_key:

Identity key
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The identity key library manages an asymmetric key used for identity services on devices with the Arm CryptoCell and KMU peripherals.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identity key library manages an asymmetric key used for identity services on devices with the Arm CryptoCell and KMU peripherals.
It can be used by Zephyr images in the secure domain, like for instance MCUBoot, to provision an identity key.
It is not supported to use it from non-secure images of any kind or from TF-M images,
```

If I'm perusing the NCS docs I want to quickly know 2 things.

What is this library for?
From what system/code/image/firmware can I use it?

Reviewer 3: Reads fine, I will update it like this. I just removed the "to use it" in the last sentence since it is  not needed.

Functionality
*************

> This library manages the identity keys, which are asymmetric keys intended to provide identity to specific devices.

Reviewer: TF-M uses the word "attestation key" for this key unless I have misunderstood something.

Should we use the same terminology to reduce the number of words we use for the same thing?

Reviewer: We've used "Identity key" too many places already.

It's too late to fix this usability issue.

The identity key is designed to be unique and is provisioned either device-generated or otherwise in a secure manner during production.
The identity key is encrypted and stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU), in two reserved KMU slots.

> The HUK used to encrypt the identity key is the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK), which is a key reserved for encrypting key-wallet keys.

Reviewer: What is a key-wallet in this context?

Reviewer: Would it be equally accurate to say
"a key reserved for encrypting other keys."

?

Reviewer: Here, from our docs, this makes more sense:

"Master key encryption key (MKEK). It is used for deriving Key Encryption Keys (KEKs), which are used to encrypt other keys when these are stored."

So we could write

"which is a key used for deriving Key Encryption Keys (KEKs)."

Reviewer: Key Encryption Keys are luckily named well enough that they need no explanation.

Reviewer 3: I rephrased it and hopefully now it is more clear to read.

Reviewer: Better now :)

> The identity key is only available for use from a secure image, like the TF-M image, a bootloader, or an image used during production of the device.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

How would TF-M use the identity key when it has no access the identity key APIs ?

If this sentence is talking about identity key API usage, and not more abstractly the identity key itself then it is wrong and redundant with the proposed sentence above.

Reviewer 3: This is now removed.

.. caution::
   The identity key must not be shared. Leaking this leaks the identity of the device.

.. caution::

>    The identity key stored in KMU will be erased when ERASEALL is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The identity key is stored in the KMU and will therefore be erased by ERASEALL.
```

Using a modifier on "identity key" sounds like there are multiple identity keys and this just applies to the one stored in the KMU.

called implies a function call, but ERASEALL can come from the debugger or from MMIO.

Reviewer 3: done

.. _lib_identity_key:

Identity key
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The identity key library manages an asymmetric key used for identity services on devices with the Arm CryptoCell and KMU peripherals.

> It can only be used by a Zephyr image in the secure domain and it's intended use is to provision identity keys.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's used to provision identity keys and can only be used by a Zephyr image in the secure domain.
```

> It is not supported from non-secure images of any kind, from a TF-M image, or from MCUBoot.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is not supported from non-secure images, from a Trusted Firmware-M image, or from MCUboot.
```

> The identity key is equivalent to the Initial Attestation Key (IAK), as decribed in the ARM Platform Security Model 1.1, when Trusted Firmware M (TF-M) is enabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The identity key is equivalent to the Initial Attestation Key (IAK), as described in the ARM Platform Security Model 1.1, when Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) is enabled.
```

TF-M has access to the identity key using internal APIs and does not need to use this library.

Functionality
*************

This library manages identity keys, which are asymmetric keys intended to provide a unique identity to a device.
The identity key is designed to be unique and is provisioned either device-generated or otherwise in a secure manner during production.

> Two reserved slots of the Key Management Unit (KMU) peripheral are used to store the identity key in order to protect it's integrity.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Two reserved slots of the Key Management Unit (KMU) peripheral are used to store the identity key in order to protect its integrity.
```

The identity key is stored in an encrypted form using a Key Encryption Key (KEK) derived by the Hardware Unique key (HUK) Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK).

.. caution::

>    The identity key must not be shared. Leaking this leaks the identity of the device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The identity key must not be shared.
   Leaking this, leaks the identity of the device.
```
